.TH RESOURCE-V13 5 "November 20, 2010" "RunDeck User Manuals" "Version 1.3"
.SH NAME
.PP
resource-v13 - describes the RunDeck resource model document
.PP
The Resource Model XML document declares a resource model that can
also be uploaded to a project hosted on the RunDeck server.
This document describes the format and necessary elements.
.SH Elements
.PP
The root (aka \[lq]top-level\[rq]) element of the resource file is
called \f[B]project\f[].
.SS project
.PP
Project defines all the resources.
.PP
Can contain the following elements:
.TP
.B node (#node)
A node resource element.
.RS
.RE
.PP
\f[I]Example\f[]
.PP
\f[CR]
      <project>
      \ \ <node\ .../>
      </project>
\f[]
.SS node
.PP
The node element defines a Node resource.
.PP
\f[I]Attributes\f[]
.TP
.B name
The node name.
This is a logical identifier from the node.
(required)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B description
A brief description about the node.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B hostname
The hostname or IP address of the remote host.
(required)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B osArch
The operating system architecture.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B osFamily
The operating system family, such as unix or windows.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B osName
The operating system name such as Linux or Mac OS X.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B tags
Comma separated list of filtering tags.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B username
The username used for the remote connection.
(required)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B editUrl
URL to an external resource model editor service (optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B remoteUrl
URL to an external resource model service.
(optional)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]anything\f[]
Any user-supplied attributes can be specified to add additional
metadata about a node.
.RS
.RE
.PP
\f[I]Nested Elements\f[]
.TP
.B attribute (#attribute)
Further user defined attributes.
.RS
.RE
.SS attribute
.PP
Defines a single metadata attribute for the node, as an alternative
to specifying it as a XML attribute on the \f[B]<node>\f[] element
itself.
.PP
\f[I]Attributes\f[]
.TP
.B name
The name of the attribute
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B value
The value of the attribute
.RS
.RE
.PP
Alternatively, the value can be specified as nested text content.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
\f[CR]
      <attribute\ name="server-path"\ value="/var/myapp"/>
      
      <attribute\ name="server-port">9010</attribute>
\f[]
.SS Examples
.PP
Define a node named \[lq]strongbad\[rq]:
.PP
\f[CR]
      <node\ name="strongbad"\ type="Node"
      \ \ \ \ description="a\ development\ host"
      \ \ \ \ hostname="strongbad.local"
      \ \ \ \ osArch="i386"\ osFamily="unix"\ osName="Darwin"\ osVersion="9.2.2"
      \ \ \ \ username="alexh"/>
\f[]
.PP
Define a node of the type LinuxNode that has a \f[B]https-port\f[]
attribute:
.PP
\f[CR]
      <node\ type="LinuxNode"\ name="centos54"\ hostname="centos54.local"
      \ \ \ \ \ \ description="Sample\ Linux\ node"\ tags="sample,linux"
      \ \ \ \ \ \ >
      \ \ \ \ <attribute\ name="https-port"\ value="435"/>
      </node>
\f[]
.PP
Define a node named that uses a non standard SSH port.
The \[lq]hostname\[rq] value is overloaded to include the port
(192.168.1.106:4022):
.PP
\f[CR]
      <node\ name="centos54"\ type="Node"
      \ \ \ \ description="a\ centos\ host"
      \ \ \ \ hostname="192.168.1.106:4022"
      \ \ \ \ username="deploy"
      \ \ \ \ />
\f[]
.PP
An example using just the required attributes:
.PP
\f[CR]
      <node\ name="centos54"\ type="Node"
      \ \ \ \ hostname="192.168.1.106:4022"
      \ \ \ \ username="deploy"/>
\f[]
.PP
An example with a custom attribute \[lq]appname\[rq] specified in
the \f[B]<node>\f[] element:
.PP
\f[CR]
      <node\ name="centos54"\ type="Node"
      \ \ \ \ hostname="192.168.1.106:4022"
      \ \ \ \ username="deploy"
      \ \ \ \ appname="CoolApp"
      \ \ \ \ />
\f[]
.PP
The RunDeck source code and all documentation may be downloaded
from <https://github.com/dtolabs/rundeck/>.
.SH AUTHORS
Alex Honor.

