.TH rd-queue 1 "July 7, 2011" "" "Version ${VERSION}"
.SH NAME
.PP
rd-queue - Lists and kills executions in the Rundeck queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
rd-queue [\f[I]action\f[]] [-h] [-e id] [-p project]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The rd-queue command is used to query the Central Dispatcher for a
list of currently running Executions, or to Kill a currently
running execution.
.PP
The tool provides two actions:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]list\f[] : list the currently running executions on the server
(default action)
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]follow\f[] : Follow the output of the execution specified by
ID
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]kill\f[] : kill the execution specified by ID
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print usage message.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -e, --eid
ID of the execution (kill or follow action only)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -p
Project name (list action only)
.RS
.RE
.SS follow mode
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Do not show output from the execution, but wait until it completes.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -r, --progress
Show execution progress.
For Jobs with a known average duration, `#' will indicate
percentage complete, otherwise '.' will indicate continued
progress.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -t, --restart
If specified, all output from the Execution is retrieved from the
beginning, rather than resuming from the current point in time.
.RS
.RE
.SH LIST ACTION
.PP
This is the default action of the tool, so to list all running
Executions for a project, simply use:
.PP
\f[CR]
      rd-queue\ -p\ project
\f[]
.PP
The output will display the number of executions, and their IDs and
identifying names or descriptions, as well as a link to the Rundeck
page to follow the output.
.PP
If there is only one project, the \f[B]-p\f[] option can be left
out.
.PP
\f[I]Example\f[]
.PP
\f[CR]
      rd-queue\ -p\ test
      Queue:\ 1\ items
      [160]\ adhoc\ script\ job\ <http://localhost:8080/rundeck/execution/follow/160>
\f[]
.SH FOLLOW ACTION
.PP
This action allows you to specify the Execution ID of a currently
running execution that you want to follow the progress of.
The output of the execution will be retrieved from the current
point in time onward and echoed locally to the console.
.PP
If \f[B]-t\f[]/\f[B]--restart\f[] is used, then all output of the
execution is retrieved from the beginning.
.PP
If \f[B]-r\f[]/\f[B]--progress\f[] is used, then the output is not
echoed, and a progress indicator bar is printed.
.PP
If \f[B]-q\f[]/\f[B]--quiet\f[] is used, then no output is echoed,
and the tool will wait until the execution completes, and exit with
a non-zero exit status if the execution was not successful.
.PP
\f[I]Example\f[]
.PP
\f[CR]
      rd-queue\ follow\ -e\ 160
      Output\ from\ the\ job
      ...
      Final\ output
      [160]\ execution\ status:\ failed
\f[]
.PP
\f[I]Example using \[em]progress\f[]
.PP
\f[CR]
      rd-queue\ follow\ -e\ 160\ --progress
      ####################.....
      [160]\ execution\ status:\ failed
\f[]
.SH KILL ACTION
.PP
This action allows you to specify the Execution ID of a currently
running execution that you want to stop.
.PP
\f[I]Example\f[]
.PP
\f[CR]
      rd-queue\ kill\ -e\ 160
      rd-queue\ kill:\ success.\ [160]\ Job\ status:\ killed
\f[]
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]dispatch\f[] (1) (dispatch.html), \f[B]run\f[] (1) (run.html).
.PP
The Rundeck source code and all documentation may be downloaded
from <https://github.com/dtolabs/rundeck/>.
.SH AUTHORS
Greg Schueler; Alex Honor.

